# Introduction



Shell scripting is the practice of writing a sequence of commands in a file and having the shell execute them automatically. Instead of typing commands one by one in a terminal, you write them once in a script and run it whenever needed.
 
This repository covers the core building blocks of Bash scripting, from running your first script to working with variables, logic, loops, and functions.
 
## What is Bash
 
**Bash** stands for **Bourne Again SHell**. It serves two purposes:
 
| Role | Description |
|---|---|
| **Command-line interpreter** | Accepts and runs commands typed in a terminal |
| **Scripting language** | Executes a file of commands with support for variables, logic, and loops |
 
Bash is the default shell on most Linux distributions and was the default on macOS until 2019. It is available on virtually every Unix-based system.
 
## Why Bash Scripting?
 
- **Automation**: Run repetitive tasks automatically instead of manually.
- **System control**:  Interact directly with the OS, files, and processes.
- **Ubiquity**: Available on every Linux and macOS machine with no installation required.
- **Speed**: Scripts execute instantly with near-zero startup overhead.
- **Composability**: Chain built-in tools together to build powerful workflows.

## Running your First Bash Script
 In this section, we will create and run our first Bash script on an Ubuntu Linux Virtual Machine.
- The first line of every Bash script must be the **shebang** `#!`:
 
```bash
#!/bin/bash
```
 
This tells the OS which interpreter to use when running the file. Without it, the system may use a different shell that doesn't support all Bash syntax.
 
1. Create the an empty file named `hello.sh`.
```bash
touch hello.sh
```

2. Write the script
- Before add content to the file, you must open it.
```bash
nano hello.sh
```
- Now write the following inside the file.
```bash
#!/bin/bash
 
echo "Hello, World!"
```
- Press ctrl + o then press Enter (to save).
- Press ctrl + x to exit.
  
so you are now back in the terminal.

3. Give it execute permission
```bash
chmod +x hello.sh
```
>[!note]
> `chmod` means change mode and `+x` adds execute permission so the file can run as a program.

4. Run it
```bash
./hello.sh
```
>[!note]
>`.` means current directory.</br>
> `./hello.sh` tells Ubuntu to run the file located here. Without `./` the system searches only in system directories like /usr/bin
- Output
```
Hello, World!
```
